Basics of modern and successful search engine optimization in this comprehensive SEO fundamentals course.
1.Intro and Curriculum

Hi and welcome to this introductory course about the fundamentals of search engine optimization.

My name is Johannes Wolff, and in this course, I'll teach you a solid understanding of modern and

practical search engine optimization.

We'll begin by looking at the absolute basics what the search engine optimization even mean.

What is a search engine and how do they work?

Will then look at the three processes a search engine must complete to display websites on the search

results page.

Crawling, indexing and ranking for each of these steps will detail how they work and how we can do

our best to support the search engine and be found by searches on the Web.

Afterwards, we talk about the critical topic of keyword research.

What does our target audience want?

What are they looking for and how can we provide this content for them so that search engines will consider

all of.

On page, as you'll see next extensive section of the course where we will begin to get a bit more practical.

How can we best offer our content, what elements we need to know, and how do we implement them correctly?

We'll even get a bit more technical.

You look at how websites actually work and how we can work together with developers and admins to make

our website the absolute best.

Finally, we talk about how we can get our content and our website out there with link building.

This way we can make sure that all the effort we put into content structure and website optimizations

pays off and we can reap the well-deserved reward for our work in the form of qualified organic traffic

from search.

We have a lot to talk about and I hope you are just as excited as me to get started.


2. Brief intro Search Engine Optimization :

As here is an abbreviation for search engine optimization.

Search engine optimization focuses on ensuring that more qualified visitors come to our website through

so-called organic search results.

Organic in this case means just that they are not paid for.

If you search for something on Google, for example, you usually get some sponsored results at the

top of the search results, which are paid ads.

These can be recognized by this small label at right next to them.

The normal search results are done displayed below through ACL.

We try to position our page for relevant search queries as best as possible.

Ideally, we appear among the first results to attract as many interested people as possible to our

website, even though we are talking about search engine optimization.

It is important to understand right at the beginning that our efforts should focus more on the people

searching than on the search engines themselves.

We want to understand exactly what people are searching for on the Internet, what answers they expect,

how these searches are formulated, and what content we can provide.

To meet these searches, we go into more detail about why optimizing for search engines is increasingly

turned into optimization for humans.

Later on in this course, of course, we have to make sure that the search engines are able to read

and understand all content correctly.

And we cannot always assume that everything a human being can recognize and understand can be interpreted

by a bot in the same way.

At the end of the SEO fundamentals course, we will therefore have looked at both sites and learned

how to set ourselves up and optimize all content correctly for both humans and search engines and dashboards.


3. What is Search  Engine ?

A search engine determines which website is the best on a particular topic.

Search engines are made to find answers to queries.

They answer engines, so to speak.

The queries do not always have to be questions, though they can also be individual words or short sentences.

In this case, the search engine simply needs to find relevant content on the given topic.

A search engine obviously cannot start looking for answers only at the very moment this query is made.

The Internet contains a vast amount of content and would take forever to search and sort through it

on the fly.

Users, after all, expect a direct answer from search engines.

That's why they use a three step process.

First, they find content on websites, which is what we call crawling.

They then store this content in a huge database called an index.

This step is called indexing.

And last but not least, the search engine forms a so-called ranking by organizing the content.

The order is based on how relevant and good the content is for certain search queries and is identical

to the way in which the organic results are displayed to us in the search results.

But what does organic mean?

We call search results organic.

When they are displayed in the search without having been paid for the work we do.

And search engine optimization is to make sure that our content can get a high position within these

organic results.

In addition to these results, there's also content on the search results pages that appear set as a

result of being paid for.

For example, we are paid at these results are however marked with the about at and are usually displayed

above organic results in the first couple of years.

When search engines were first developed, the results were easily identifiable.

Organic results were simply represented as a list of ten blue links, and later a few clearly labeled

ads were added.

But nowadays, there's more information and content on a search results page, which can further distract

users from the actual organic results.

The search results page is often referred to as SERP, which stands for Search Engine Result Page.

The new formats on this page are therefore called search features and they are quite a lot of them.

For example, there can be answer boxes that contain a direct answer to a specific question, but also

similar questions or carousels with images or videos are now displayed relatively high up for certain

search queries.

Some of these new search features can be achieved organically through optimizations to our website,

so there's no need to pay extra for them.

These include, for example, the answer boxes that provide a short answer to a specific question.

Some of these features cannot be achieved with a normal website at all because Google gets the information

from proprietary data sources like Wikipedia.

4. Why is SEO important ?

There are many different ways to bring traffic to a website.

It can be through social media, can be through paid advertising or sponsored content that brings people

to us.

However, the majority of all online traffic is generated by search engines, and when it comes to search

engines, organic results are significantly more popular with users because they are ultimately more

credible.

Nobody has paid for the fact that their own website is suggested.

A study in USA, for example, showed that only about 2.8% of users click on paid ads in their search

results page.

This means that organic ranked pages with zeal have about 20 times the potential of pay per click ads.

And this applies to both desktop search and mobile.

Another, if not the biggest advantage of search engine optimization compared to other digital marketing

efforts is that genuinely long term and long lasting improvements can be made.

How does it work?

Just one good piece of content on a website through targeted placement and optimizations for SEO can

unleash a kind of snowball effect that brings qualified visitors to your website on a permanent basis.

PPC or pay per click advertising, on the other hand, requires continuous funding to get more visitors.

If you stop paying for your assets, you will immediately stop getting new traffic.

In order to use this immense advantage for us.

We have to make sure that not only good and relevant content is available on our website.

It is also important that we optimize it in such a way that it can be easily recognized by search engines

and indexed accordingly.

So can I do as your myself or do I need an agency or consultant?

Well, this brings up the question do you prefer to pay in money or time?

Naturally, this always depends somewhat on the individual situation.

Above all, you have to consider whether you would rather invest time and your own willingness to learn,

or whether you would rather invest some money.

In the case of smaller and less complex websites, especially those of companies that perhaps only do

business locally or regionally, some things can certainly be done without a great deal of prior knowledge.

If it is a company that operates nationally or even internationally with multiple locations, complex

website structure and individual solutions are needed, then it may be worthwhile to look into the possibility

of getting professional help for search engine optimization.

Either way, both approaches are better than neglecting the topic and thus possibly not using one of

the most important digital marketing channels out there.

What do you try as you or your self or looking for a partner?

It's important to work professionally or find reputable agencies because when it comes to search engine

optimization, there's always a chance of making mistakes.

And these mistakes can ultimately do more harm to a company than good.

5.  White Hat and Black Hat SEO - The right and wrong way to optimize a Website  :

When it comes to us here, there's a right and a wrong way to do it.

Oftentimes also known as white hat and black hat as you the terms white hat and black hat originate

from Western movies.

In Westerns, the good guys often wore white hats and the bad guys wore black hats the same way the

terms are applied to the topic of Sue by Whitehead Seale.

We refer to all the techniques and actions that adhere to the rules of search engines and simply strive

to make the experience better for all users.

Black Hat SEO, on the other hand, refers to techniques and measures that are primarily intended to

deceive or cheat the search engines in order to get a better ranking.

This involves trickery and the use of shady processes.

Even though this might still work in individual cases.

The search engines are very eager to detect and punish these tactics so that truly good and relevant

results can be displayed in search.

By using black it as your tactics.

Whether you do it yourself or an agency does.

You can do a lot of damage to your own company, or rather your own website.

For starters, how do search engines themselves feel about as you the major search engines pursue similar

goals as SEO industry?

Ultimately, it is always about showing the searchers the best possible results.

Since search engines have become very good at searching how good or bad, how relevant or appropriate

a piece of content is.

CEOs are usually out to create this excellent content and thereby have the search engines with their

goal.

Google itself offers a guide starter guide to search engine optimization, which can definitely be used.

Additionally to discover.

Furthermore, many Google employees actively participate in discussions on the topic of Assume.

For example, on Twitter.

They also regularly attend large SEO conferences in order to gain and offer insights to strengthen the

Common Core.

Besides, all major search engines actually publish guidelines that specify which measures are acceptable

and which are not.

Strictly speaking, the basic essence or underlying principle is the same for all of those guidelines.

You shouldn't try to trick or deceive the search engine.

Instead, the focus should be on providing a great online experience for users.

6. Is SEO relevant outside of Google? Are there other Search Engines?

This is a difficult question to answer.

If you look at it in a completely neutral way based on only numbers, the simple answer is probably

not.

Google has by far the largest market share, and although there are about 30 major search engines on

the web, numerically, there's none that is even remotely as dominant as Google and Google image search

maps and YouTube, which is also a Google product.

And over 90% of all Web searches take place on Google now.

This already sounds like a lot, but to put it in more perspective, that's about 20 times as many searches

as your closest competitor, Bing and Yahoo!

Combined.

You can say whatever you want about Google's virtual monopoly.

If you want to generate a lot of traffic through SEO, you probably won't be able to get past the big

G for now.

There are, of course, special cases in which a focus on Google does not necessarily make sense.

In this beginner's guide, however, we will relate the majority of things to Google specifically for

the simple reason of the absolute numbers at hand.

All starting with the guidelines.

Webmaster Guidelines from Google.

Google publishes and updates guidelines for webmasters that summarize some basic principles.

The full guidelines are linked with this video.

But let's briefly summarize the essence.

Basic principles that should be followed are websites should be created for users and not for search

engines.

Neither users nor search engines should be deceived.

More tricks or cheating to manipulate the ranking.

Think about what makes your website unique and valuable.

Now some things that we should avoid at all costs.

Content that is automatically generated buying and or exchanging links creating pages without original

content so stolen or duplicated content and showing search engines different content than we show users.

Understanding and fulfilling user intentions.

It is actually much easier to create our own website and content in such a way that we are in the best

possible position for search engine optimization.

We shouldn't waste too many thoughts on paying attention to this or that or avoiding to solve that.

At the very core, we should create our content with the goal of understanding our target audiences

intentions and desires and helping them fulfill them.

When someone searches for something using a search engine, they have a specific result in mind a goal

we call the disclose user intent, and we have to fulfill it with our website.

There are several categories of this the most common ones being informative.

A user is looking for specific information.

For example, this can be a search query such as which smartphone has the best camera.

Internet navigation users looking for a specific website, for example, Wikipedia.

Transaction.

A user wants to buy something and searches for it.

Example would be Black Friday deals on laptops.

You can always get a good idea of what the user intent is for specific queries by taking a look at the

current results on the search results page.

Search engines have become really good at displaying the right relevant content.

So if a lot of images or videos are shown for a particular search, then that usually reflects what

the users want.

And we should also focus on visual content when it comes to this topic.

Looking at the search engine result page for the very best gaming console, it seems like users are

expecting some sort of top list with different consoles listed, including their strengths and weaknesses.

So if we publish relevant and high quality content on our website, then we build trust, increase our

credibility and reliability, and at the same time, we can actually improve our performance in search.

But before we blindly jump into the topic of SEO, we should briefly think about what we actually want

to achieve with it.

7. . How to define good goals for SEO ?

Not only the goal of the search engine and the wishes of our target group are important.

We also need to know what our own goal is in terms of SEO.

Websites exist for a wide variety of reasons.

Some are for entertainment.

Others are closely tied to actual companies and aim to strengthen their business.

To define goals that we can support with SEO, it is important to first start with overall business

goals and then see how search engine optimization can help support them.

To this end, we find important KPIs, key performance indicators that we can use to measure how well

our search engine optimization is performing.

Simply put, what numbers do we want to monitor to determine if our efforts are really paying off?

A few commonly used tips would be downloads, newsletter, email, sign ups, sales calls, audits.

Not this list may be missing two things that you would actually expect.

There is no mention of ranking anywhere, meaning where our website is positioned in the search engine

results.

On top of that, we haven't even mentioned the number of visits to our website.

Some of you may be thinking, I want to learn more about SEO, but ranking and visits aren't important

at all.

That's obviously not true, but our search rankings and resulting website traffic are really just a

means to an end.

Of course, we want to bring as many qualified prospects to our website as possible, and as he always

grateful, that emphasis is on qualified though.

After all, these people should be business relevant to our company.

Let's say we run an online store.

Now, which scenario would be a greater success for us?

10,000 monthly visitors and 100 sales in our store, or a thousand monthly visitors.

But over 500 says it is obvious which variant makes more sense from a business point of view.

So before we start optimizing our website for search engines, the sensible thing to do is think about

what we want to achieve.

Then we can use as a tool to achieve those goals and not the other way around.

As Here is an incredibly important part of a successful online marketing mix.

If we work diligently and consistently, we can strengthen our position in the long run and drive prospects

to a website on a permanent basis.

And of course, we will present all the important and relevant parts of successful and modern search

engine optimization.

And we hope to be able to give us many people as possible a first insight to this interesting topic.


8. How do Search Engines work?

We have already learnt that a search engine is basically nothing more than a machine that answers questions

or at least tries to.

In order for a search engine through its job as well as possible, it must of course have a good answer

already for an extremely large number of different questions on a wide variety of topics.

The search engine itself is not an omniscient oracle and cannot simply answer the questions itself.

Instead, it searches all of the Internet, all of the websites, and all of the content for information

in order to show the person searching the most relevant possible selection of available sources on the

topic in question.

To accomplish this task.

Search engines worked using three main operations crawling here, the entire Internet, every freely

accessible website and URL is scanned for content.

Indexing.

The discovered content from crawling is stored in what is called the index of the search engine and

can then be displayed in the search from this index.

And finally, ranking the ranking of the search engine tries to determine through various factors.

Which content offers the best possible answers to any given search query so that the most relevant results

can be displayed at all times.

So let's begin with crawling.

The term crawling refers to the process in which a search engine sends out bots or so-called spiders

to find new and updated content on the internet.

Crawling comes from the nickname of the bots.

Like I said, spiders as they crawl.

The content that the bots search for can be anything from an entire website to images, videos, PDFs,

everything that is available online.

No matter what format the content has, one fact stays the same.

This content is found through the links.

Google bot starts by visiting some web pages and then follows the various links on these web pages.

In this way, the bot discovers more and more new pages and content that may provide answers or information

to specific search queries.

This content is then added to the Search Engines Index.

What is a search engine index?

Search engines processed, the information they get from bots and crawlers and stored a content they

consider good enough in what is called an index.

This index is actually nothing more than a huge database of all the content the search engine has found

and deemed relevant.

Now, what does ranking mean in terms of search engines?

When a person searches for something using a search engine, this search engine obviously doesn't just

display all the content from its index that might fit the topic in some arbitrary order.

Instead, it tries to rank the results by relevance so that the content that best fits the search intent

is displayed first.

And this is called ranking.

In general terms, we can say that the higher the position of a particular page in the search results,

the more relevant it is classified by the search engine for that specific search query.

In the section, we will take a closer look at these three phases and steps that the search engine must

complete.

In doing so, we will learn what we should do to ensure that our own website is as well prepared as

possible, and that a search engine has no problems finding, crawling and indexing the page.

Because even though search engine optimization nowadays has a lot to do with optimization for the actual

users or humans, we still have to make sure that search engines have no problems with our website.

9. Can Search Engines find my Website?

We already learned that the requirement for a website to appear in the search results is that the crawlers

and bots of the search engine are able to find a website on the Internet, able to visit it and added

to the index.

So if you already have a website now, it's exactly the right time to check whether this website is

already indexed and can be found by Google Search.

To do this, we have basically two different possibilities.

We could simply use the Google search directly and use a special search operator.

We can just enter site call on my domain dot com.

So in my case, I could, for example, search for side colon digitalis, Hoffa's body, which is one

of our websites for the search operator.

We can tell Google, I only want to see results from this domain, meaning from this particular website.

If we don't specify any other search terms after that, Google will simply show us all pages indexed

from this website.

It is important to mention here that to display a number of results which this about this number of

results right below the search bar should not be interpreted as a reliable statement about exactly how

many pages are indexed from this domain.

The number can, however, give a rough overview of how many URLs are indexed.

If you want more accurate numbers and more information, key figures and analytical reports about your

own website and indexed and in Google Search, you can create a free Google Search console account.

Using this tool, we can directly submit site maps for our website and ask the search engine to indexed

URLs and their content.

We will then also get information directly in the dashboard, whether this happens or if something didn't

work out.

So before we continue, let's take a quick look at how we can create a search console account and link

it to our website.

In order to create a search console account.

You will have to go to search dot Google dot com slash search console and will probably see a screen

that looks a little something like this.

If you want to, you can read up on all the information about the search console on this page.

But let's skip to the point and click on the big start and all.

But now, since I'm already locked in with my Google account, this will bring me personally to my search

console and will have my last selected property shown here.

If you do not have a search console account, you will be prompted to log in with your Google account.

Could be a gmail or Google business account and then you will be prompted to create and your property.

And this is exactly what we are doing now.

So in my case, since I already have properties here, I have to click on this dropdown and select add

property down here.

If I do that, I can choose between two different property types.

Domain or you are a prefix.

The URL prefix is the old model.

So for any new domain, I would encourage you to choose a domain since this will include all subdomains.

So m dot org w w w thought it will work regardless of protocols or etps or htp, but it does require

DNS verification.

If you don't know how to do this yourself, you can easily contact your hosting or domain provider or

your webmaster or developers if you have them.

But let's start and I would begin by entering my domain here, which is content creator school.

Dot com.

As soon as I've done that, make sure that down or type was in your domain.

I can click continue.

This is verifying my property and it already tells me what the next steps are to verify it.

It has automatically recognized where my domain is located, which is GoDaddy dot com for me and I can

now continue with the verification process.

So for me, this is correct.

I don't have to select anything else here and I can start verification.

This will bring me to GoDaddy page and will prompt me to log in.

Where do you get this exact same process?

Depends on where your domain is located.

And this might be just as straightforward as it is here for me, or it might be more complex.

But you can always get support from your domain host or your developers or webmasters if you need to.

So let me log in here real quick and then we'll continue.

I am now logged in and all I have to do is pretty much confirm that I would like to authorize Google

to verify my domain content creators.

Google dot com.

So let's click on Connect.

We are going back to our search console.

And should see this ownership verified that now this happens almost in real time.

So you might initially when going back see a pop up that the verification has failed.

But don't worry, just reload the page a minute or two later and it should work again.

If you have any trouble verifying your domain, you should contact your domain provider or your developers

or webmasters to have them manually set the appropriate DNS records.

Now that this has worked for us, I can say that I go to property which were in the Google search console

back end bring up mine you property.

I can see it here content creator school.

And in the beginning this is of course empty because Google will only now start collecting data on the

search performance for our website.

If your website doesn't show up on here, it's not necessarily a cause for concern yet.

This can be due to several reasons.

The most common ones being the website is still very new and has not yet been found by the crawler.

The website is not linked to any other websites.

The navigation structure of the website is difficult for crawlers to understand, and therefore the

content cannot be crawled effectively.

The website itself blocks the search engine bots by giving certain crawler instructions.

The website has been penalized by the search engine for a policy violation.

If you use search console audit site called on my website dot com operator and search, you may notice

that important pages are missing from the index.

On the other hand, there may be rather unimportant pages of your website indexed that don't actually

need to appear in search.

This is not a bad thing because we have ways to have the bots and crawlers off the search engine to

search and find the content that is important for us and to direct our focus to the right pages or directly

exclude unimportant pages.

People often worry about Google not finding important sub pictures on the website.

However, we tend to overlook the fact that there are actually some pages on every website that are

completely irrelevant for search and that we do not have to have indexed.

These can be special landing pages for limited time offers or pages, imprint or tests, as opposed

to trying to index certain pages, which can be difficult.

It is actually quite easy to exclude unimportant pages from indexing.

The easiest way to do this is to use a simple text file called Robots.txt Text.

10 . The important robots.txt File  :

The Robot store text file is a very basic text file that is placed in the root director of a website.

This means simply that the file can be accessed at the URL.

My website dot com slash robot store text in the file.

We can use plain text instructions to specify how Google or other search engines or bots should or should

not crawl our website.

Now.

How is this robots text treated by Google?

If Google does not find any robots or text file on the website, then the entire website can be crawled.

If Google does find a robot text file in the root directory, then the instructions to report content

are usually taken into account.

If Google finds an error when trying to read the robot's text file and cannot definitely determine whether

the file exists or not, then the entire website will not be crossed.

What is your budget and do I need to worry about it?

The term for a budget comes up again and again in search engine optimization and often causes uncertainty

and also fear, especially among beginners, as to whether their own site can actually be created in

its entirety for much.

It simply means the average number of pages that the Google bot cross before it leaves the website again.

Therefore, by excluding irrelevant pages, we can ensure that the scribe budget is used as efficiently

as possible and is not wasted on these irrelevant pages.

At this point, however, we must definitely mention that Croy budget and the corresponding optimizations

actually only start to play a real role for very large websites with thousands or tens of thousands

of sub pages.

A small website with a few hundreds of pages will definitely be crawled completely by Google, but you

don't need to worry at all here.

Nevertheless, it's hardly ever a bad idea to exclude pages that really don't need to show up in search.

To all but respect this robot's text file.

And how can I best protect more sensitive areas of my website?

Many newbies who hear about this robot text file for the first time try to directly at everything.

They don't want to be searched by bots to it.

However, it's important to note that the instructions in this robot's file are only a hint.

Crawlers, such as the Google bot and other search engine bots usually respect these instructions.

However, there are other bots on the internet that automatically try websites.

Their aim is often not to find content and index pages, but to steal data and obtain sensitive information.

Therefore, it's not advisable to block really sensitive areas and pages of a website.

Indy robot still text file after.

Right.

The fact that this file is publicly viewable means that malicious bots can directly detect which pages

you do not want to be searched and can target these pages specifically and searching for information.

A better approach to protecting these sensitive pages is to use the no index tech and protect the pages

with passwords so that no unauthorized person can access them.

If you don't know anything about the new index tech or the concept of meta attacks in general, don't

worry.

We'll also go into more detail about them later on in this course.

The important takeaway his data and content that should not be found by bots no matter if harmless or

malicious, must be protected by passwords.

So, for example, are looking to really be absolutely safe.

11 . How to check if your Website is accessible for bots and crawlers ?
We've already talked about how to avoid that Googlebot finds and cross relevant pages and index system.

Now it's time to ask ourselves what we can do to make sure that the board finds all the important content

and pages and adds them to research index.

We need to ensure that crawlers can find and access the content bearable.

They want to check if we can find everything.

We should ask ourselves the following questions Is content on our site protected by logins?

We have talked about the fact that logins or passwords are the safest way to protect content from bots,

especially malicious ones.

Therefore, if a login questionnaire or any other form needs to be filled out in order to view the content,

Googlebot will not be able to see it because crawlers will never log in.

Search forms required to view content but can use searches.

Many newbies assume that if people can find anything on a website using the search, then bots and crawlers

can too.

But that's not the case because bots do not use search.

After all, they don't know what to search for in the first place.

There are parts of the text not displayed as actual text on all website.

What we mean by this somewhat complicated question is the following parts of the pages textual content

embedded as an image, gif or video, for example, but can only interpret to him.

I called off the website and read the text that has been included in it.

Text that is on top of an image will not be understood by the bot and would therefore possibly be ignored.

Of course, parts are getting smarter here too, and Google in particular is working a lot on automatic

image recognition.

But we cannot currently assume the texts on an image would be correctly recognized and taking into account.

Can the bot follow all website navigation the same way that the bot came to our website?

Yeah.

An external link.

It needs other links that can lead to other pages on our website.

The internal links that connect individual pages represent the path that a bot can follow on our website.

Therefore, we have to make sure that all the pages we want indexed are accessible through these links.

For example, from our menu or through links into content on our sub purchase.

If a certain page of our website is not linked to from anywhere, then it's virtually impossible for

a crawler to find it and it will not be indexed.

Common errors that can cause spots to have trouble following the navigation are the following.

The website has different navigations with different links.

For mobile devices and desktop devices.

The navigation does not consist of extreme elements, but is generated by JavaScript, for example.

Search engines, especially Google, are getting better and better at recognising these navigation structures

as well.

But the best choice is still a standard implementation using HMO code, excessive personalization and

navigation so that different links are displayed for different visitors.

This approach may even look like cloaking to a search engine and might cause a guideline violation which

would cause the website not to be indexed.

The absence of links to important pages of the website.

In the main, navigation links are the path for bots and therefore this should be made as effortless

as possible, especially when it comes to the most important pages.

It is incredibly important that our website has a sensible, comprehensible navigation as well as logical

structures, so that crawlers are able to find all the content we want them to find.

12 .  Why proper Information Architecture matters ?
Do we have good and simple information architecture?

Information architecture is the term we use to describe the structure or the way we sort categorize

and display our content with a good information architecture.

We make sure that no one has to search for anything on our website for a long time.

Instead, navigation is intuitive, and visitors and bots alike find their way to the next page and

the content they want to see without much thought.

Do we use site maps?

A site map is really nothing more than a list of URLs to all the pages on our website.

A crawler can use this list to find and index relevant pages.

The easiest way to make sure that Google finds all the pages that are most important to us is to create

such a sitemap and submit it to the Google search console.

It is important to know that submitting the sitemap is not a substitute for good page navigation or

information architecture, especially since these are immensely important for actual users and human

visitors.

However, the sitemap can definitely have crawlers find and index pages that may be linked to less frequently

on our page.

Let's take a brief look at a site map and how we can submit it in the Google search console.

We are currently looking at the automatically generated sitemap for the content creator school dot com

website, which is still just a template, but we can see that we do have some duress listed here.

This particular sitemap was auto generated by a block and we are using on this WordPress side called

the ACL framework, but there are many ways in which a site can be generated.

I can also take a look at the usual exam l layout of the sitemap by just right clicking here and selecting

view page source.

And this is how a site map would usually look.

We can see that we have a lot of as you.

So one of these blocks represents a URL.

Then we have the location parameter, which is your anti last mod parameter which specifies when this

page was last modified.

And then we just have this list that goes on and on and on and we can see that the location of our sitemap

is this your.

So content creator school dot com slash sitemap dot and this is what we're going to need in the search

console.

So I'll just copy it and let's jump back over to our search console account where we are now just logged

in and have our content creator school dot com properties selected in the left column.

Under the section index I can find site maps and if I click on this, I can see that there are no site

maps currently submitted.

I can now add to my site, my PUA, which is what we've just copied.

So content creator school dot com slash site map thought examiner.

Make sure that there are no typos and here and then submit the site by clicking the button.

After short loading time, we should get this message that this site was submitted successfully.

Click on got it.

And we can see that we have now listed one submitted site map here, the date when we submitted it when

it was last read by Google and the status so we can see success.

Everything worked out.

12th URLs were discovered.

If we come back to you for a second, those are exactly that way.

If you are URLs listed in our site map here.

So everything worked and we can now assume that Google knows about this URLs and that they might be

crawled in future visits of the crawler to our website.

Make sure to only list those you are as in the site for Google that should be indexed so that the crawler

gets clear instructions.

It makes no sense to exclude certain pages via the Robert's text file or matter text, only to list

them again in the sitemap.

The same applies if there are duplicate pages on a website.

In this case, only the preferred you are should be included in the site map and other URLs that point

to the same page.

I'll just admit the site map can be especially helpful if there are no other websites linking to your

website yet.

Perhaps because it is still very new or just not well known.

Submitting the site map is not a guarantee that Google will actually crawl the URLs, but it's definitely

worth a try.

Do Crawlers encounter errors when accessing our website?

While a bottle crawler is on our Web site.

It may happen that arasaka if we go to the index section in our Google search console account, we can

see these errors.

This is where we can find server errors and not found errors should they occur.

Alternatively, we can also look at these errors and plenty of other information from server log files.

However, these files and analysis are a very advanced topic, so we will not cover them in this beginner's

course for own purposes.

The listing in the search console is sufficient because we can see exactly on which pages the errors

occur.

But before we talk about what conclusions we can draw from this report, it's important to briefly look

at the different errors and what they mean.

13 . Different Error Types :
400 records.

A roller coaster start with a fall also called client errors.

This means that, for example, due to a typo in the URL deleted page or something similar, a request

is made to the server that it cannot fulfill.

The most common and probably best known error in this category is the code for oh form, which means

not font.

In other words, the requested page cannot be found and therefore the user what gets an error message

instead of the expected result for of errors are especially frustrating for human visitors and often

cause them to leave the site.

500 records while a record starting with a four hour client side are also starting with a five, also

called server errors.

In this case, the problem is that the server cannot answer the requests made to it properly or within

a reasonable time.

For example, a timeout occurs and a Google bot or any other bot abandons the request without being

able to search for content.

In many cases, server errors are triggered by the server receiving too many requests in a short period

of time and not having enough processing power to answer them or properly.

Errors of any kind are not only a problem for search engine bots, they are also a nuisance for the

actual visitors and users of the website and they can easily to frustration and people leave the website

and search for needed information elsewhere.

Obviously we should avoid this at all cost.

There are two ways how we can better deal with any kind of errors, create custom error pages and set

up redirects to prevent fault or for errors happening on our site.

Let's start with customer error pages.

The default behavior when an error occurs is for the processor to display a rather unhelpful and unappealing

error page to the users, which might look something like this.

In this case, a visitor may be able to tell whether there appears to be an error or perhaps even recognize

the cause of it.

But still, it's not a good user experience because all that can be done at this point is to go back

or enter a new are in the browser.

This is precisely what frequently causes users to leave a website, and it's something we want to prevent

under all circumstances.

Instead of the standard error page, we can create a separate page to be shown in case of an error.

On this page, we can try to explain as best as possible what went wrong and at the same time help users

in taking sensible action.

One example for a44 arrow would be to notify the user that we are sorry, but the requested page does

not seem to exist.

In addition, we provide links to the homepage and our most important pages so that users can continue

browsing right away.

Another good element for such an error page is a search function.

A visitor can enter the information they are looking for and hopefully find the content they need on

our website.

Of course, this doesn't fix the error itself, but we do our best to make the experience as pleasant

as possible for our users.

14 . Redirects :

Other than typos, which a user makes in the euro themselves, the most common cause of a fall for error

or not found is moving or deleting content by the side owner themselves.

It can occur, for example, when we remove outdated content from our website that is nevertheless linked

to from other sites or from search.

If the page no longer exists because we deleted it, we naturally get this error.

Many times we simply change the URL off a page as part of optimizing our information architecture.

For example, let's say we created a website and initially worked with very confusing structures.

Since we didn't really know anything about the subject matter.

This has led to the fact that a simple article on SEO now appears under the euro content creator school

dot com slash block slash articles slash topic.

SEO slash.

Create a google search console account.

Meanwhile, we know that having an organized structure and clear information architecture is tremendously

important for a website.

So we would like to adjust the euro for this article.

Our new one would be content creator school dot com slash as the own slash create a google search console

account so the content still exists on our website.

But now if someone goes through the audio URL or click on the link, that's two points to the URL.

They will get a A-4 for a Roswell.

Fortunately, we have a simple way of making this change easy for search engines as well as for users

and visitors.

So-called redirects.

We distinguish between mainly two different types of redirect.

Decode.

301 indicates a permanent redirect and a code 302 is a temporary redirection.

By setting up such a redirect, the request of the auditor will no longer generate an error.

Instead, users of bots will be redirected automatically to the new era and get exactly the content

they were looking for.

Temporary redirects do not play a huge role in search engine optimization.

You can imagine them a bit like a rort that has to be repaired.

It will be closed for a short time, but after the work is done, it will be back to normal just like

before.

More interesting for us is 301 redirect, which makes sense when we want to make the same content permanently

accessible under a different aura as an example.

Let's take a quick look at the effects in different areas.

If we format A, you are accordingly.

And what happens if we don't use it?

Experience?

We've already mentioned it with a proper 301 redirect.

Even users who go to the audio arena won't get to the content they want and not really notice anything

except maybe a short delay.

And did you want a change without the redirect?

Users will probably get a440 and get frustrated and leave our website because they can't seem to find

the content they want.

Indexing.

By redirecting, we signal to the crawler that this content can now be found at this new you are.

The search engine can therefore update the entry in the index and displayed in new.

You are in the search results without a redirect, the crawler gets the same error as our user.

This does not technically harm the status of our website.

At first, however, a search engine with sooner or later remove already indexed content that results

in an error and we will lose valuable search traffic and visitors who could have come to our website

from the search engine.

Change redirects should be avoided.

It can be difficult for both users and search engine crawlers if a page is reached only after multiple

redirects.

This phenomenon is also known as a redirect train or change redirect.

As such, we should try to avoid it as much as possible.

Let's look at an example.

We use a redirect to change example dot com slash shop two example dot com slash offers.

Now we want to change the URL again and instead of example dot com slash offers send users to example

dot com slash select.

Instead of having to go through tool redirect.

We can simply redirect both.

Example dot com slash shop and example dot com slash offers directly to example dot com slash select.

Perhaps you can see the whole thing a bit more clearly in this chart.

We have now done everything we can to ensure that our website is easily accessible and that search engines

and the crawlers and bots can find and access all the content.

The next step, naturally, is that we want the content found to be indexed as well so that it can actually

show up in searches.

15 .
